feat: Feature Testing & Regression slice, QA audit command, and verification hardening (#109)
provectus/awos: commands/tasks.md

## Step 1: Identify the Target Specification

> 1.  **Detect `--no-tests` flag:** Before anything else, check whether the `<user_prompt>` contains `skip tests` or `--no-tests` (case-insensitive). If found, set an internal flag `SKIP_TESTS = true`. This flag suppresses all verification sub-tasks inside slices and omits the Feature Testing & Regression slice entirely. Strip the flag from the prompt before spec identification.

Reviewer: >**Detect `--no-tests` flag:** Before anything else, check whether the `<user_prompt>` contains `skip tests` or `--no-tests` (case-insensitive). If found, set an internal flag `SKIP_TESTS = true`.

I would propose to don't shape it as a flag. Because it may fail on human's wording - i.e. with "don't generate qa stuff now" phrase would probably be not detected here as "--no-tests flag" while I may bet that user wanted exactly this.

Like:

```suggestion
1.  If `<user_prompt>` explicitly mentions that tests are not expected then skip all verification sub-tasks inside slices and omits the Feature Testing & Regression slice entirely.
```

  - Check that the project has the MCPs, services, and dependencies needed for testing each slice. If something is missing, instruct the user to install it.
  - If a slice cannot be tested, explain why and get user approval before proceeding.
  - A slice is not complete unless it is tested or the user has explicitly approved skipping the test.

>   - After a slice is verified and marked complete, **delete all temporary artifacts** generated during that slice's verification — screenshots, recorded videos, generated e2e test scripts, and any other ephemeral files produced by the e2e-tester or browser MCP. Exception: do **not** delete artifacts from the **Feature Testing & Regression** slice — those are intentionally kept for the regression suite.

Reviewer: >e2e-tester

What it is?

  1.  First, identify the absolute smallest piece of user-visible value from the spec. This is your **Slice 1**.
  2.  Create a high-level checklist item for that slice (e.g., `- [ ] **Slice 1: View existing avatar (or placeholder)**`).
  3.  Under that slice, create the nested sub-tasks (database, backend, frontend) needed to implement and verify **only that slice**.
  4.  **For each sub-task, assign the appropriate subagent:** - Analyze the sub-task description to understand what technology/domain it involves - Analyze the Task tool definition to extract all available subagent_type values with their descriptions to understand what subagents are available for assignment. - Match the sub-task to a subagent based on: - Technology keywords - Task intent - Tech stack identified in technical-considerations.md - Append the subagent assignment using format: `**[Agent: agent-name]**` at the end of the sub-task description - Use `general-purpose` agent when no specialist clearly matches the task — but **track these assignments** for the Recommendations table

>   5.  **Generate paired test tasks for each slice (skip only if user explicitly opts out):** - After defining the implementation sub-tasks for a slice, invoke the `testing-expert` agent in **planning mode**. - Pass it: the current slice's implementation sub-task description, `functional-spec.md`, and `technical-considerations.md`. - The `testing-expert` will return a list of test sub-tasks covering the applicable pyramid layers (unit, integration, e2e, contract) with both positive and negative cases. - Insert those test sub-tasks as children of the same slice, after the implementation sub-tasks. - If the user has said they do not want tests generated, skip this step entirely and omit all test sub-tasks. - **CRITICAL — Slice Completion Rule:** A slice parent task is only `[x]` when ALL its sub-tasks — both implementation AND all test sub-tasks — are `[x]`. This is enforced by `/awos:implement`'s existing sub-task completion logic. - Example result for a slice:

Reviewer 2: You mention here a `testing-expert` agent, but it's not registered as an agent (the md file is just in `commands` directory for some reason). Also, I doubt that "invoke in planning mode" can actually work

Author: You're right on both counts. 
- 'testing-expert' belongs in plugins/awos/agents/, not commands/ — that's where dimension-auditor lives and where the Agent tool can resolve subagent_type. 
- The "planning mode" instruction is also broken as written: it relies on the agent's internal mode detection (no implementation code in context = planning mode), but the invocation mechanism isn't specified. 

**Plan**: move the file to pugins/awos/agents/testing-expert.md and rewrite step 5 to use an explicit Agent tool call.

      ` - [ ] **Slice 1: User authentication**

>       - [ ] Implement JWT token generation **[Agent: python-expert]**

Reviewer 2: This is a bad example, actually. It is a general purpose command that must produce a comprehensive task list. The example should not contain only qa-related tasks, otherwise it might be biased towards only testing tasks.

Author: Agreed, the example is misleading. A slice example should show implementation sub-tasks alongside test sub-tasks to reflect what a real balanced slice looks like. Will replace it with one that includes both.

        - Tech stack identified in technical-considerations.md
      - Append the subagent assignment using format: `**[Agent: agent-name]**` at the end of the sub-task description
      - Use `general-purpose` agent when no specialist clearly matches the task — but **track these assignments** for the Recommendations table

>   3b. **Generate paired test tasks for each slice (REQUIRED):**

Reviewer 3: Weird numbering mixing thought process syncing

Reviewer 4: What if I don't want to generate any tests?

Author: > Weird numbering mixing thought process syncing

Fixed.  Thanks.

Author: > What if I don't want to generate any tests?

Added as an option to skip test creation if the user asks about it.

      - Match the sub-task to a subagent based on:
        - Technology keywords
        - Task intent
        - Tech stack identified in `technical-considerations.md`
      - Append the subagent assignment using format: `**[Agent: agent-name]**` at the end of the sub-task description
      - Use `general-purpose` when no specialist clearly matches — track these for the Recommendations table
  5.  **If `SKIP_TESTS = true`**, omit the verification sub-task and the cleanup sub-task for this slice entirely. Skip to generating the next slice.

      **If `SKIP_TESTS = false`**, after the verification sub-task, add a cleanup sub-task as the last item of the slice:

      ```md

>       - [ ] Cleanup: Delete any screenshots, videos, or e2e scripts generated during this slice's verification. **[Agent: general-purpose]**

Reviewer: (nit) `[Agent: general-purpose]` for the cleanup step — `rm` of known-named artifacts is a one-line shell command. SDD-07 audit dimension flags "majority of implementation tasks use general-purpose" as a warn condition; cleanup sub-tasks add to that count without adding decision value. Two options:
- Inline the `rm` into the Verify step (no separate sub-task).
- Exempt cleanup sub-tasks from the SDD-07 count, and document that exemption in `plugins/awos/skills/ai-readiness-audit/dimensions/spec-driven-development.md`.

      ```

      Skip this sub-task for the **Feature Testing & Regression** slice — its artifacts are kept intentionally.

  6.  Next, identify the second-smallest piece of value that builds on the first. This is **Slice 2**.
  7.  Create a high-level checklist item and its sub-tasks with subagent assignments.
  8.  Repeat this process until all requirements from the specification are covered.
  9.  **Add the Feature Testing & Regression slice (always last, unless `SKIP_TESTS = true`):**

      If `SKIP_TESTS = true`, skip this entire step — do not add the Feature Testing & Regression slice.

      Otherwise, after all implementation slices are defined, append one final slice. This slice is generated automatically — do not ask the user about it.

      ```md
      - [ ] **Slice N: Feature Testing & Regression**

        > Verifies the complete feature works end-to-end as described in functional-spec.md.
        > Run AFTER all implementation slices are complete.
        > **Requires `testing-expert` agent.** If it is not present in `.claude/agents/`,

>         > stop and run `/awos:hire` before executing this slice.

Reviewer: This would cause interruption for `/awos:implement` command while we may catch absence of `testing-expert` just here and form request to user with 3 options:
1. Install agent,
2. Skip slice with tests.
3. Add slice but without guarantees for quality (BTW not sure it is possible at all).

>         > stop and run `/awos:hire` before executing this slice.

Reviewer: These `> ` note lines leak meta-instructions into the artifact. Testing this branch on a real spec, the rendered slice carried a `> QA agent for this slice: testing-expert (selected from .claude/agents/ and the Agent tool's description block)` line — the agent-*selection rationale* ended up in the user's file. Recommend collapsing to a single one-line description (matching how every other slice has one `> ` description) and dropping the selection note — the `**[Agent: ...]**` markers already state who runs the slice. The `> **Requires testing-expert** … run /awos:hire` gate is likewise superseded by the search-first QA-agent selection.

        - [ ] Read functional-spec.md acceptance criteria in full. Generate acceptance-level tests
              that verify the entire feature as a whole — not individual slices. Cover applicable
              layers (unit for pure logic, integration for service interactions, e2e for user flows).
              Write tests with RED validation (must fail before implementation is confirmed done).
              Annotate each test with `@spec: [spec-directory]` and `@regression` if suitable
              for long-term regression. **[Agent: testing-expert]**
        - [ ] Run all generated tests. All must pass. Fix any failures before proceeding.
            **[Agent: testing-expert]**
        <!-- TODO: enable when feat/regression merges
        - [ ] Run `/awos:regression [spec-directory-name]` to review candidates for the
              regression suite, resolve duplicates, and optionally execute the full
              regression suite. Pass the current spec directory name as the argument
              (e.g., `/awos:regression 003-user-avatar`). Do not run without an argument —
              auto-detection requires all tasks to be complete, which is not yet the case.

>               -->

Reviewer: Better to drop this `<!-- TODO: enable when feat/regression merges -->` block. Its trigger lives in a *different* PR (#114) in this repo, so it can't be tracked from a generated `tasks.md` sitting in a user's project — it just ships as dead commentary in every user's file. Let PR #114, which owns `/awos:regression`, add the call to this slice when it lands. The duplicate block in the example below (~line 145) should go too.

      - `[ ] Cleanup: Delete any screenshots, videos, or e2e scripts generated during this slice's verification. **[Agent: general-purpose]**`
    - `[ ] **Slice 2: Display the user's actual avatar if it exists**`
      - `[ ] Sub-task: Add avatar_url column to the users table via a migration. **[Agent: python-expert]**`
      - `[ ] Sub-task: Update the user API endpoint to return the avatar_url. **[Agent: python-expert]**`
      - `[ ] Sub-task: Update the 'ProfileAvatar' component to fetch and display the user's avatar_url, falling back to the placeholder if null. **[Agent: react-expert]**`
      - `[ ] Verify: Run the application, use playwright-cli to open the profile page in a browser, confirm correct avatar or placeholder is shown. **[Agent: manual-qa-expert]**`
      - `[ ] Cleanup: Delete any screenshots, videos, or e2e scripts generated during this slice's verification. **[Agent: general-purpose]**`
    - `[ ] **Slice 3: Feature Testing & Regression**`
      - `> Verifies the complete feature works end-to-end as described in functional-spec.md.`
      - `> Run AFTER all implementation slices are complete.`

>       - `> **Requires \`testing-expert\` agent.\*\* If it is not present in \`.claude/agents/\`, stop and run \`/awos:hire\` before executing this slice.`

Reviewer: Markdown escape artifacts. The `\*\*` and backslash-escaped backticks look unintentional — likely from copying the template at line 98 (which renders fine) into this example with extra escaping. Compare to template:

```
> **Requires `testing-expert` agent.** If it is not present in `.claude/agents/`
```

The example line will render with literal `\*\*` instead of bold.

BTW a good place to use XML tags.
